# Usability Testing of OutWrite Magazine Website

### DH150 Assignment02: Usability Testing by Naomi Deng

### Introduction: 

- The primary purpose of conducting this usability testing is to learn how easy or difficult it is for new users or recurrent users to use the OutWrite Magazine website. According to the heuristic evaluation, I recognized the three most important usability issues that need timely solutions. First of all, the lack of about page on the website confuses first-time users, especially those who do not have prior knowledge about what to expect through using the website. Moreover, the hidden search bar proposes problems regarding convenience and efficiency, specifically for users who have a clear target of what they are looking for. Finally, the variety of sections and divisions on the website could pose difficulties for users to navigate information and resources. Thus, I formulated three tasks related to these three main issues separately to examine whether these existing problems initiate obstacles and affect the user’s overall experience of using the OutWrite Magazine website. Expressly: 1. Whether the missing about page bother first-time users who intend to learn more about the magazine/organization and thus affect their willingness to use the website; 2. Whether the hidden search bar prevents the users to find the information they need and thus affect their efficiency; 3. Whether the variety of categories and sections cause obstacles for users to navigate information. I created an online questionnaire that consists of six sections - Orientation script, Informed consent form, Pre-test questionnaire, Three tasks, Post-test questionnaire (SUS), Demographic questions. The participant was asked to fill in with honest evaluations and answers while she was using the website. In addition to the questionnaire, I also recorded the usability testing process for reviewing the users’ facial expressions and body languages to better review and analyze data. The overall goal is to identify usability problems, acquire and collect qualitative data, evaluate the participant's satisfaction with the website and develop strategies to improve user experience in the future. 

### Link to the UT Material (Online Questionnaire)

- https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScIme1_d_6SmKcJ8T6jUxDVc6egV56Z3AvM2fnfyOBywk--yQ/viewform?usp=sf_link

### Link to the pilot UT video

- https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ilSRUelhUJ8HOQRoGZVnNkolQp6DbGfw/view?usp=sharing

### Summary: 

- What I learned during the pilot test: First of all, I learned that overall the website is neither easy nor difficult to use – the user feels ambivalent about the complexity of the website. In the post-test questionnaire, the participant reveals that although she does not need technical support to complete tasks, she does not feel confident in using the website. Additionally, in terms of the results from completing the three tasks, it shows that the errors and issues detected through heuristic evaluation are worth noticing. First and foremost, the hidden search function causes tremendous obstacles for users to find specific information. For example, in all of the tasks I formulated for the testing, I required the user to “Search” which means to use the search bar embedded on the website. Nevertheless, my participant has not used the function at throughout the process. When asked to “search,” she instead, used the searching shortcuts provided by the laptop (“Command + F” on MacBook Pro) Moreover, the addition of an distinctive “About” page is necessary. The user indicates in the post-questionnaire that the process of finding information about the magazine is “Somewhat longer than expected” yet she claimed that it would be “Likely” for her to do this kind of task on a website. 

- What went well and What did not go well:On the one hand, the participant was intrigued by the website and manifested some interest in using the website throughout the process. This considerably helped the pilot test as the user was eager to cooperate with the required video-recording, answer questions, reveal her authentic feelings and evaluations and provide her honest feedback. Additionally, the participant was able to remain calm and relaxed in a comfortable setting. This aspect reduced the error caused by anxiety and tension in an otherwise, unwelcoming or inappropriate environment. Moreover, the questions are mostly straightforward, useful and relevant for the pilot testing. As the video and participants’ evaluations revealed, these tasks did demonstrate existing issues that a first-time user would encounter, which would, in turn, affect the user experience. On the other hand, there were a few things that did not go as expected in the process. Firstly, although most tasks are probing a straightforward answer or action, some questions are not very specific, thereby causing trouble for the user to comprehend and navigate answers. For example, in the third task, I asked the user to “Find out why certain people prefer to use "they/them" as gender pronouns” which could be changed to a more straightforward question such as “Find out why people use they/them as their gender pronouns” (because it’s gender-neutral). Furthermore, some question/step has two parts and therefore induced confusion when user was evaluating whether she has completed the task. For example, in task 01, step 3, I asked for the year of establishment of the magazine as well as the stories of its change of name. The participant only found the answer for the first half of the question and thus she found it difficult to judge whether she had completed the task. 

- How I want to improve my usability testing in the future: First of all, I would invite more participants to evaluate the usability of the website. In addition to first-time users, I would invite a diverse range of first-time users and recurring users who have had experience using the website. The reason for this change is to evaluate some of the stubborn problems that bother recurring users as well as detecting new problems from the fresh perspectives of novice users. Moreover, I would pay attention to the ways I phrase the tasks and steps. I would make sure the tasks and steps speak clearly and directly to the participants as to what they need to do and find. I would make sure that one step asks for one answer or action instead of multiple. Ultimately, I would be more attentive to the testing process and provide more appropriate guidance without disturbing the user. For example, in my pilot testing, although the participant seemed enthusiastic to use the website and make efforts to complete each task, her voice was relatively low as compared to the moderator’s voice. I would encourage my participants to speak aloud and think aloud and be more articulate and braver to share their thoughts and comments. 
